http://www.d20pfsrd.com/classes/core-classes/druid/
h1 - Druid
h4 - Extras
p - Contents
p - Within the purity of the elements and the order of the wilds lingers a power beyond the marvels of civilization. Furtive yet undeniable, these primal magics are guarded over by servants of philosophical balance known as druids. Allies to beasts and manipulators of nature, these often misunderstood protectors of the wild strive to shield their lands from all who would threaten them and prove the might of the wilds to those who lock themselves behind city walls. Rewarded for their devotion with incredible powers, druids gain unparalleled shape-shifting abilities, the companionship of mighty beasts, and the power to call upon nature’s wrath. The mightiest temper powers akin to storms, earthquakes, and volcanoes with primeval wisdom long abandoned and forgotten by civilization.
p - Role
p - : While some druids might keep to the fringe of battle, allowing companions and summoned creatures to fight while they confound foes with the powers of nature, others transform into deadly beasts and savagely wade into combat. Druids worship personifications of elemental forces, natural powers, or nature itself. Typically this means devotion to a nature deity, though druids are just as likely to revere vague spirits, animalistic demigods, or even specific awe-inspiring natural wonders.
p - Alignment
p - : Any neutral
p - Hit Die
p - : d8
p - Starting Wealth
p - : 2d6 × 10 gp (average 70 gp.) In addition, each character begins play with an outfit worth 10 gp or less.
p - The druid’s class skills are 
p - Climb
p - Str
p - ), 
p - Craft
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Fly
p - Dex
p - ), 
p - Handle Animal
p - Cha
p - ), 
p - Heal
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Knowledge
p -  (geography) (
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Knowledge
p -  (nature) (
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Perception
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Profession
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Ride
p - Dex
p - ), 
p - Spellcraft
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Survival
p - Wis
p - ), and 
p - Swim
p - Str
p - Skill Ranks Per Level
p - : 4 + 
p - Int
p -  modifier.
p - All of the following are class features of the druid.
p - The following 3rd Party Publisher feats are available to a druid character who meets the prerequisites.
p - Druids are proficient with the following weapons: club, dagger, dart, quarterstaff, scimitar, scythe, sickle, shortspear, sling, and spear. They are also proficient with all natural attacks (claw, bite, and so forth) of any form they assume with wild shape (see below).
p - Druids are proficient with light and medium armor but are prohibited from wearing metal armor; thus, they may wear only padded, leather, or hide armor. A druid may also wear wooden armor that has been altered by the 
p - ironwood
p -  spell so that it functions as though it were steel. Druids are proficient with shields (except tower shields) but must use only wooden ones.
p - A druid who wears prohibited armor or uses a prohibited shield is unable to cast druid spells or use any of her supernatural or spell-like class abilities while doing so and for 24 hours thereafter.
p - A druid casts divine spells, which are drawn from the 
p - druid spell list
p - . Her alignment may restrict her from casting certain spells opposed to her moral or ethical beliefs; see Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells. A druid must choose and prepare her spells in advance.
p - To prepare or cast a spell, the druid must have a 
p - Wisdom
p -  score equal to at least 10 + the spell level. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against a druid’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the druid’s 
p - Wisdom
p -  modifier.
p - Like other spellcasters, a druid can cast only a certain number of spells of each spell level per day. Her base daily spell allotment is given on 
p - Table: Druid
p - . In addition, she receives bonus spells per day if she has a high 
p - Wisdom
p -  score (see 
p - Table: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells
p - A druid must spend 1 hour each day in a trance-like meditation on the mysteries of nature to regain her daily allotment of spells. A druid may prepare and cast any spell on the druid spell list, provided that she can cast spells of that level, but she must choose which spells to prepare during her daily meditation.
p - A druid can channel stored spell energy into summoning spells that she hasn’t prepared ahead of time. She can “lose” a prepared spell in order to cast any 
p - summon nature’s ally
p -  spell of the same level or lower.
p - A druid can’t cast spells of an alignment opposed to her own or her deity’s (if she has one). Spells associated with particular alignments are indicated by the chaos, evil, good, and law descriptors in their spell descriptions.
p - Druids can prepare a number of orisons, or 0-level spells, each day, as noted on 
p - Table: Druid
p -  under “
p - Spells per Day
p - .” These spells are cast like any other spell, but they are not expended when cast and may be used again.
p - A druid’s bonus language options include Sylvan, the language of woodland creatures. This choice is in addition to the bonus languages available to the character because of her race.
p - A druid also knows Druidic, a secret language known only to druids, which she learns upon becoming a 1st-level druid. Druidic is a free language for a druid; that is, she knows it in addition to her regular allotment of languages and it doesn’t take up a language slot. Druids are forbidden to teach this language to nondruids.
p - Druidic has its own alphabet.
p - Can druids, 
p - inquisitors
p - , and other classes with access to domains take subdomains?
p - Yes, as long as they follow the rules for subdomains. A character who does not worship a deity (such as some druids and 
p - paladins
p - ) may select any one subdomain appropriate to a domain available to his or her class.
p - Source
p - At 1st level, a druid forms a bond with nature. This bond can take one of two forms. The first is a close tie to the natural world, granting the druid one of the following cleric domains: 
p - Air
p - Animal
p - Earth
p - Fire
p - Plant
p - Water
p - , or 
p - Weather
p - . Druids also have access to a set of 
p - Animal and Terrain Domains
p - . When determining the powers and bonus spells granted by this domain, the druid’s effective cleric level is equal to her druid level. A druid that selects this option also receives additional domain spell slots, just like a cleric. She must prepare the spell from her domain in this slot and this spell cannot be used to cast a spell spontaneously.
p - The second option is to form a close bond with an 
p - animal companion
p - . A druid may begin play with any of the animals listed in 
p - Animal Choices
p - . This animal is a loyal companion that accompanies the druid on her adventures.
p - (Editor: Details on how animal companions work can found be here: 
p - Animal Companions
p - Drake Companions
p - Unlike normal animals of its kind, an animal companion’s Hit Dice, abilities, skills, and feats advance as the druid advances in level. If a character receives an animal companion from more than one source, her effective druid levels stack for the purposes of determining the statistics and abilities of the companion. Most animal companions increase in size when their druid reaches 4th or 7th level, depending on the companion. If a druid releases her companion from service, she may gain a new one by performing a ceremony requiring 24 uninterrupted hours of prayer in the environment where the new companion typically lives. This ceremony can also replace an animal companion that has perished.
p - There are feats just for animals. Here are a few:
p - Source
p - PZO9446
p - Druidic herbalism is a nature bond option that can be taken by any druid at 1st level except those with archetypes or alternate class features that alter or replace nature bond or mandate a specific nature bond choice.
p - Instead of granting access to a domain or an 
p - animal companion
p - , a druid’s bond with nature can take a third form: access to druidic herbalism.
p - A druid who chooses to learn druidic herbalism can use combinations of nuts, berries, dried herbs, and other natural ingredients along with appropriate containers to create herbal concoctions or magic consumables that function like 
p - potions
p - . This acts like the 
p - Brew Potion
p -  feat, but only for spells on the druid spell list. Herbal concoctions are typically thick and sludgy, and their creation time, 
p - caster level
p - , spell duplication capabilities, and all other variables and properties are identical to those of 
p - potions
p -  created using 
p - Brew Potion
p - . Herbal concoctions created with herbs that cause special effects when ingested retain those effects as well as the appropriate spell effect.
p - A druid can create a number of free herbal concoctions per day equal to her 
p - Wisdom
p -  modifier. Additional concoctions cost the same as creating an equivalent 
p - potion
p -  using 
p - Brew Potion
p - . Druids can sell their herbal concoctions just as if they were 
p - potions
p -  (though NPCs unfamiliar with druidic herbalism may need some convincing before purchasing these wares).
p - At 4th level, a druid’s increasing skill with herbalism means that she can disguise the effects of her herbal concoctions. When a creature attempts a 
p - Perception
p -  or 
p - Spellcraft
p -  check to identify one of the druid’s concoctions, the concoction appears to be a different herbal concoction of the druid’s choice unless the creature exceeds the identification DC by 5 or more. The druid must designate this false result when creating the concoction. If a creature exceeds the identification DC by 5 or more, it correctly identifies the concoction, though not that the druid tried to fool it.
p - Additionally, at 4th level, when the druid creates additional concoctions, she need pay only half the normal cost to create them. It takes her only half the normal time to create her concoctions, and she can create concoctions of spells from any spell list, as long as she can cast the spell.
p - At 7th level, when the druid creates concoctions with potential false identification results, a creature attempting to identify the concoction must exceed the identification DC by 10 or more to determine the concoction’s true identity.
p - Additionally, at 7th level, a druid can create any herbal concoction in 1 minute. She can also create a special concoction of any spell higher than 3rd level that she can cast, but to do so, she must expend a spell slot of the same level. These special concoctions do not cost her anything to create and function like extracts created by an 
p - alchemist
p -  with the 
p - infusion
p -  discovery.
p - A druid gains a +2 bonus on 
p - Knowledge
p -  (nature) and 
p - Survival
p -  checks.
p - A druid can improve the attitude of an 
p - animal
p - . This ability functions just like a 
p - Diplomacy
p -  check made to improve the attitude of a person. The druid rolls 1d20 and adds her druid level and her 
p - Charisma
p -  modifier to determine the wild empathy check result.
p - The typical domestic 
p - animal
p -  has a starting attitude of indifferent, while wild 
p - animals
p -  are usually unfriendly.
p - To use wild empathy, the druid and the 
p - animal
p -  must be able to study each other, which means that they must be within 30 feet of one another under normal conditions. Generally, influencing an 
p - animal
p -  in this way takes 1 minute but, as with influencing people, it might take more or less time.
p - A druid can also use this ability to influence a magical beast with an 
p - Intelligence
p -  score of 1 or 2, but she takes a –4 penalty on the check.
p - Starting at 2nd level, a druid may move through any sort of undergrowth (such as natural thorns, briars, overgrown areas, and similar terrain) at her normal speed and without taking damage or suffering any other impairment. Thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that have been magically manipulated to impede motion, however, still affect her.
p - Starting at 3rd level, a druid leaves no trail in natural surroundings and cannot be tracked. She may choose to leave a trail if so desired.
p - Starting at 4th level, a druid gains a +4 bonus on saving throws against the spell-like and supernatural abilities of fey. This bonus also applies to spells and effects that target plants, such as 
p - blight
p - entangle
p - spike growth
p - , and 
p - warp wood
p - At 4th level, a druid gains the ability to turn herself into any small or Medium 
p - animal
p -  and back again once per day. Her options for new forms include all creatures with the 
p - animal
p -  type. This ability functions like the 
p - beast shape I
p -  spell, except as noted here. The effect lasts for 1 hour per druid level, or until she changes back. Changing form (to 
p - animal
p -  or back) is a standard action and doesn’t provoke an attack of opportunity. The form chosen must be that of an animal the druid is familiar with.
p - A druid loses her ability to speak while in 
p - animal
p -  form because she is limited to the sounds that a normal, untrained animal can make, but she can communicate normally with other animals of the same general grouping as her new form. (The normal sound a wild parrot makes is a squawk, so changing to this form does not permit speech.)
p - A druid can use this ability an additional time per day at 6th level and every two levels thereafter, for a total of eight times at 18th level. At 20th level, a druid can use wild shape at will. As a druid gains in levels, this ability allows the druid to take on the form of larger and smaller animals, 
p - elementals
p - , and plants. Each form expends one daily usage of this ability, regardless of the form taken.
p - At 6th level, a druid can use wild shape to change into a Large or Tiny 
p - animal
p -  or a Small 
p - elemental
p - . When taking the form of an 
p - animal
p - , a druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - beast shape II
p - . When taking the form of an 
p - elemental
p - , the druid’s wild shape functions as 
p - elemental body I
p - At 8th level, a druid can use wild shape to change into a Huge or Diminutive 
p - animal
p - , a Medium 
p - elemental
p - , or a Small or Medium plant creature. When taking the form of animals, a druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - beast shape III
p - . When taking the form of an elemental, the druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - elemental body II
p - . When taking the form of a plant creature, the druid’s wild shape functions as 
p - plant shape I
p - At 10th level, a druid can use wild shape to change into a Large 
p - elemental
p -  or a Large plant creature. When taking the form of an 
p - elemental
p - , the druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - elemental body III
p - . When taking the form of a plant, the druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - plant shape II
p - At 12th level, a druid can use wild shape to change into a Huge 
p - elemental
p -  or a Huge plant creature. When taking the form of an 
p - elemental
p - , the druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - elemental body IV
p - . When taking the form of a plant, the druid’s wild shape now functions as 
p - plant shape III
p - At 9th level, a druid gains immunity to all poisons.
p - At 13th level, a druid gains the ability to change her appearance at will, as if using the 
p - alter self
p -  spell, but only while in her normal form.
p - After attaining 15th level, a druid no longer takes ability score penalties for aging and cannot be magically aged. Any penalties she may have already incurred, however, remain in place. Bonuses still accrue, and the druid still dies of old age when her time is up.
p - A druid who ceases to revere nature, changes to a prohibited alignment, or teaches the Druidic language to a nondruid loses all spells and druid abilities (including her animal companion, but not including weapon, 
p - armor
p - , and shield proficiencies). She cannot thereafter gain levels as a druid until she atones (see the 
p - atonement
p -  spell description).
p - Instead of receiving an additional skill rank or hit point whenever they gain a level in a favored class, some races have the option of choosing from a number of other bonuses, depending upon their favored classes. The following options are available to the listed race who have druid as their favored class, and unless otherwise stated, the bonus applies each time you select the listed favored class reward.
p - When a character selects a class, he must choose to use the standard class features found or those listed in one of the archetypes presented here. Each alternate class feature replaces a specific class feature from its parent class. For example, the elemental fist class feature of the monk of the four winds replaces the stunning fist class feature of the monk. When an archetype includes multiple class features, a character must take all of them—often blocking the character from ever gaining certain familiar class features, but replacing them with equally powerful options. All of the other class features found in the core class and not mentioned among the alternate class features remain unchanged and are acquired normally when the character reaches the appropriate level (unless noted otherwise). A character who takes an alternate class feature does not count as having the class feature that was replaced when meeting any requirements or prerequisites.
p - A character can take more than one archetype and garner additional alternate class features, but none of the alternate class features can 
p - replace or alter the same class feature
p -  from the core class as another alternate class feature. For example, a paladin could not be both a hospitaler and an undead scourge since they both modify the smite evil class feature and both replace the aura of justice class feature. A paladin could, however, be both an undead scourge and a warrior of the holy light, since none of their new class features replace the same core class feature.
p - Archetypes are a quick and easy way to specialize characters of a given class, adding fun and flavorful new abilities to already established adventurers. The druid class has several sub-categories of archetypes.
p - Subpages
p - Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook
p - . © 2009, Paizo Publishing, LLC; Author: Jason Bulmahn, based on material by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and Skip Williams.
p - New Pages
p - Recent Changes
p - Fan Labs
p - Character Sheets
p - Downloads
p - Hero Lab Community Repository
p - FAQ
p - Pirates ARRR Us!
p - Shop our Store!
p - Sell in the Store!
p - Back my Patreon!
p - Get Published
p - Report a Problem
p - Legal Information/Open Game License
p - Traveller SRD
p - Swords and Wizardry SRD
p - 5th Edition SRD
p - Dungeon World SRD
p - 13th Age SRD
p - d20HeroSRD
p - The Modern Path SRD
p - d20PFSRD
p - 3.5e SRD
p - GumshoeSRD
p - FateCoreSRD
p - Starjammer SRD
p - OGN Articles
p - Design Finder 2018
p - Fudge SRD
p - Pathfinder 2 Playtest
p - Here Be Monsters
p - affiliate commissions
p - Bootstrap
p - New Pages
p -  | 
p - Recent Changes
p -  | 
p - Privacy Policy
