http://www.d20pfsrd.com/classes/core-classes/monk/
h1 - Monk
h4 - Extras
p - Contents
p - For the truly exemplary, martial skill transcends the battlefield—it is a lifestyle, a doctrine, a state of mind. These warrior-artists search out methods of battle beyond swords and shields, finding weapons within themselves just as capable of crippling or killing as any blade. These monks (so called since they adhere to ancient philosophies and strict martial disciplines) elevate their bodies to become weapons of war, from battle-minded ascetics to self-taught brawlers. Monks tread the path of discipline, and those with the will to endure that path discover within themselves not what they are, but what they are meant to be.
p - Role
p - : Monks excel at overcoming even the most daunting perils, striking where it’s least expected, and taking advantage of enemy vulnerabilities. Fleet of foot and skilled in combat, monks can navigate any battlefield with ease, aiding allies wherever they are needed most.
p - Alignment
p - : Any lawful
p - Hit Die
p - : d8
p - Starting Wealth
p - : 1d6 × 10 gp (average 35 gp.) In addition, each character begins play with an outfit worth 10 gp or less.
p - The monk’s class skills are 
p - Acrobatics
p - Dex
p - ), 
p - Climb
p - Str
p - ), 
p - Craft
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Escape Artist
p - Dex
p - ), 
p - Intimidate
p - Cha
p - ), 
p - Knowledge
p -  (history) (
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Knowledge
p -  (religion) (
p - Int
p - ), 
p - Perception
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Perform
p - Cha
p - ), 
p - Profession
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Ride
p - Dex
p - ), 
p - Sense Motive
p - Wis
p - ), 
p - Stealth
p - Dex
p - ), and 
p - Swim
p - Str
p - Skill Ranks per Level
p - : 4 + 
p - Int
p -  modifier.
p - All of the following are class features of the monk.
p - Monks are proficient with the 
p - brass knuckles
p - cestus
p - club
p - , crossbow (
p - light
p -  or 
p - heavy
p - ), 
p - dagger
p - handaxe
p - javelin
p - kama
p - nunchaku
p - quarterstaff
p - sai
p - shortspear
p - short sword
p - shuriken
p - siangham
p - sling
p - spear
p -  and 
p - temple sword
p - Armor and Shield Proficiency
p - : Monks are not proficient with any armor or shields. When wearing 
p - armor
p - , using a shield, or carrying a medium or heavy load, a monk loses his 
p -  bonus, as well as his 
p - fast movement
p -  and 
p - flurry of blows
p -  abilities.
p - When unarmored and unencumbered, the monk adds his 
p - Wisdom
p -  bonus (if any) to his 
p -  and his 
p - CMD
p - . In addition, a monk gains a +1 bonus to 
p -  and 
p - CMD
p -  at 4th level. This bonus increases by 1 for every four monk levels thereafter, up to a maximum of +5 at 20th level.
p - These bonuses to 
p -  apply even against touch attacks or when the monk is 
p - flat-footed
p - . He loses these bonuses when he is immobilized or 
p - helpless
p - , when he wears any 
p - armor
p - , when he carries a shield, or when he carries a medium or heavy load.
p - The monk rules for flurry of blows state: “For the purpose of these attacks, the monk’s 
p - base attack bonus
p -  is equal to his monk level.” How does this interact with BAB from class levels and racial 
p - Hit Dice
p - ? Does a multiclassed 
p - fighter
p -  19/monk 1 flurry as if his BAB were only +1?
p - A monk using flurry treats his BAB from monk levels as equal to his monk level. He still adds BAB from other sources (such as other classes or racial 
p - Hit Dice
p - ) normally to this total.
p - So a 
p - fighter
p -  19/monk 1 has a normal BAB of +19. When he flurries, he treats his monk BAB as +1 (for his 1 level of monk) and still gets BAB +19 from his 
p - fighter
p -  levels, for a total flurry BAB of +20.
p - Source
p - When I use flurry of blows, can I make all of the attacks with just one weapon, or do I have to use two, as implied by the ability functioning similarly to Two-Weapon Fighting?
p - You can make all of your attacks with a single monk weapon. Alternatively, you can replace any number of these attacks with an unarmed strike. This FAQ specifically changes a previous ruling made in the blog concerning this issue.
p - Source
p - Starting at 1st level, a monk can make a flurry of blows as a full-attack action.
p - When doing so, he may make one additional attack, taking a –2 penalty on all of his 
p - attack rolls
p - , as if using the 
p - Two-Weapon Fighting
p -  feat. These attacks can be any combination of unarmed strikes and attacks with a 
p - monk
p -  special weapon (he does not need to use two weapons to utilize this ability).
p - For the purpose of these attacks, the monk’s 
p - base attack bonus
p -  from his monk class levels is equal to his monk level. For all other purposes, such as qualifying for a feat or a prestige class, the monk uses his normal 
p - base attack bonus
p - At 8th level, the monk can make two additional attacks when he uses flurry of blows, as if using 
p - Improved Two-Weapon Fighting
p -  (even if the monk does not meet the prerequisites for the feat).
p - At 15th level, the monk can make three additional attacks using flurry of blows, as if using 
p - Greater Two-Weapon Fighting
p -  (even if the monk does not meet the prerequisites for the feat).
p - A monk applies his full 
p - Strength
p -  bonus to his damage rolls for all successful attacks made with flurry of blows, whether the attacks are made with an off-hand or with a weapon wielded in both hands. A monk may substitute 
p - disarm
p - sunder
p - , and 
p - trip
p - combat maneuvers
p -  for unarmed attacks as part of a flurry of blows. A monk cannot use any weapon other than an 
p - unarmed strike
p -  or a special monk weapon as part of a flurry of blows. A monk with 
p - natural weapons
p -  cannot use such weapons as part of a flurry of blows, nor can he make 
p - natural attacks
p -  in addition to his flurry of blows attacks.
p - At 1st level, a monk gains 
p - Improved Unarmed Strike
p -  as a bonus feat. A monk’s attacks may be with fist, elbows, knees, and feet. This means that a monk may make unarmed strikes with his hands full. There is no such thing as an off-hand attack for a monk striking unarmed. A monk may thus apply his full 
p - Strength
p -  bonus on damage rolls for all his unarmed strikes.
p - Usually a monk’s unarmed strikes deal lethal damage, but he can choose to deal 
p - nonlethal damage
p -  instead with no penalty on his 
p - attack roll
p - . He has the same choice to deal lethal or 
p - nonlethal damage
p -  while 
p - grappling
p - A monk’s unarmed strike is treated as both a manufactured weapon and a natural weapon for the purpose of spells and effects that enhance or improve either manufactured weapons or 
p - natural weapons
p - A monk also deals more damage with his unarmed strikes than a normal person would, as shown above on 
p - Table: Monk
p - . The unarmed damage values listed on 
p - Table: Monk
p -  are for Medium monks. A Small monk deals less damage than the amount given there with his unarmed attacks, while a Large monk deals more damage; see 
p - Table: Small or Large Monk Unarmed Damage
p - At 1st level, 2nd level, and every 4 levels thereafter, a monk may select a bonus feat. These feats must be taken from the following list:
p - Catch Off-Guard
p - Combat Reflexes
p - Deflect Arrows
p - Dodge
p - Improved Grapple
p - Scorpion Style
p - , and 
p - Throw Anything
p - At 6th level, the following feats are added to the list:
p - Gorgon’s Fist
p - Improved Bull Rush
p - Improved Disarm
p - Improved Feint
p - Improved Trip
p - , and 
p - Mobility
p - At 10th level, the following feats are added to the list:
p - Improved Critical
p - Medusa’s Wrath
p - Snatch Arrows
p - , and 
p - Spring Attack
p - A monk need not have any of the prerequisites normally required for these feats to select them.
p - At 1st level, the monk gains 
p - Stunning Fist
p -  as a bonus feat, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. The monk may attempt a stunning attack a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
p - At 4th level, and every 4 levels thereafter, the monk gains the ability to apply a new condition to the target of his 
p - Stunning Fist
p - . This condition replaces stunning the target for 1 round, and a successful 
p - saving throw
p -  still negates the effect.
p - At 4th level, he can choose to make the target 
p - fatigued
p - At 8th level, he can make the target 
p - sickened
p -  for 1 minute.
p - At 12th level, he can make the target 
p - staggered
p -  for 1d6+1 rounds.
p - At 16th level, he can permanently 
p - blind
p -  or 
p - deafen
p -  the target.
p - At 20th level, he can 
p - paralyze
p -  the target for 1d6+1 rounds.
p - The monk must choose which condition will apply before the 
p - attack roll
p -  is made. These effects do not stack with themselves (a creature 
p - sickened
p -  by 
p - Stunning Fist
p -  cannot become 
p - nauseated
p -  if hit by 
p - Stunning Fist
p -  again), but additional hits do increase the duration.
p - At 2nd level or higher, a monk can avoid damage from many area-effect attacks. If a monk makes a successful 
p - Reflex
p - saving throw
p -  against an attack that normally deals half damage on a successful save, he instead takes no damage. Evasion can be used only if a monk is wearing light armor or no armor. A 
p - helpless
p -  monk does not gain the benefit of 
p - evasion
p - At 3rd level, a monk gains an 
p - enhancement bonus
p -  to his land speed, as shown on 
p - Table: monk
p - . A monk in armor or carrying a medium or heavy load loses this extra speed.
p - At 3rd level, a monk uses his monk level in place of his 
p - base attack bonus
p -  when calculating his 
p - Combat Maneuver Bonus
p - . Base attack bonuses granted from other classes are unaffected and are added normally.
p - A monk of 3rd level or higher gains a +2 bonus on 
p - saving throws
p -  against 
p - enchantment
p -  spells and effects.
p - At 4th level, a monk gains a pool of 
p -  points, supernatural energy he can use to accomplish amazing feats. The number of points in a monk’s 
p -  pool is equal to 1/2 his monk level + his 
p - Wisdom
p -  modifier. As long as he has at least 1 point in his 
p -  pool, he can make a 
p -  strike.
p - By spending 1 point from his 
p -  pool, a monk can do one of the following:
p - Each of these powers is activated as a 
p - swift action
p - The 
p -  pool is replenished each morning after 8 hours of rest or meditation; these hours do not need to be consecutive.
p - At 4th level or higher, a monk within arm’s reach of a wall can use it to slow his descent. When first gaining this ability, he takes damage as if the fall were 20 feet shorter than it actually is. The monk’s ability to slow his fall (that is, to reduce the effective distance of the fall when next to a wall) improves with his monk level until at 20th level he can use a nearby wall to slow his descent and fall any distance without harm.
p - At 5th level, a monk adds his level to all 
p - Acrobatics
p -  checks made to jump, both for vertical jumps and horizontal jumps. In addition, he always counts as having a running start when making jump checks using 
p - Acrobatics
p - . By spending 1 point from his 
p -  pool as a 
p - swift action
p - , a monk gains a +20 bonus on 
p - Acrobatics
p -  checks made to jump for 1 round.
p - At 5th level, a monk gains 
p - immunity
p -  to all diseases, including 
p - supernatural
p -  and magical diseases.
p - At 7th level or higher, a monk can heal his own wounds as a 
p - standard action
p - . He can heal a number of 
p - hit points
p -  of damage equal to his monk level by using 2 points from his 
p -  pool.
p - At 9th level, a monk’s 
p - evasion
p -  ability improves. He still takes no damage on a successful 
p - Reflex
p - saving throw
p -  against attacks, but henceforth he takes only half damage on a failed save. A 
p - helpless
p -  monk does not gain the benefit of 
p - improved evasion
p - At 11th level, a monk gains 
p - immunity
p -  to poisons of all kinds.
p - At 12th level or higher, a monk can slip magically between spaces, as if using the spell 
p - dimension door
p - . Using this ability is a 
p - move action
p -  that consumes 2 points from his 
p -  pool. His 
p - caster level
p -  for this effect is equal to his monk level. He cannot take other creatures with him when he uses this ability.
p - At 13th level, a monk gains 
p - spell resistance
p -  equal to his current monk level + 10. In order to affect the monk with a spell, a spellcaster must get a result on a 
p - caster level
p -  check (1d20 + 
p - caster level
p - ) that equals or exceeds the monk’s 
p - spell resistance
p - Starting at 15th level, a monk can set up vibrations within the body of another creature that can thereafter be fatal if the monk so desires. He can use this quivering palm attack once per day, and he must announce his intent before making his 
p - attack roll
p - . Creatures immune to critical hits cannot be affected. Otherwise, if the monk strikes successfully and the target takes damage from the blow, the quivering palm attack succeeds. Thereafter, the monk can try to slay the victim at any later time, as long as the attempt is made within a number of days equal to his monk level. To make such an attempt, the monk merely wills the target to die (a 
p - free action
p - ), and unless the target makes a 
p - Fortitude
p - saving throw
p -  (DC 10 + 1/2 the monk’s level + the monk’s 
p - Wis
p -  modifier), it dies. If the 
p - saving throw
p -  is successful, the target is no longer in danger from that particular quivering palm attack, but it may still be affected by another one at a later time. A monk can have no more than 1 quivering palm in effect at one time. If a monk uses quivering palm while another is still in effect, the previous effect is negated.
p - At 17th level, a monk no longer takes penalties to his ability scores for aging and cannot be magically aged. Any such penalties that he has already taken, however, remain in place. Age bonuses still accrue, and the monk still dies of old age when his time is up.
p - A monk of 17th level or higher can speak with any living creature.
p - At 19th level, a monk gains the ability to assume an ethereal state for 1 minute as though using the spell 
p - etherealness
p - . Using this ability is a 
p - move action
p -  that consumes 3 points from his 
p -  pool. This ability only affects the monk and cannot be used to make other creatures ethereal.
p - At 20th level, a monk becomes a magical creature. He is forevermore treated as an 
p - outsider
p -  rather than as a 
p - humanoid
p -  (or whatever the monk’s creature type was) for the purpose of spells and magical effects. Additionally, the monk gains 
p - damage reduction
p -  10/
p - chaotic
p - , which allows him to ignore the first 10 points of damage from any attack made by a nonchaotic weapon or by any 
p - natural attack
p -  made by a creature that doesn’t have similar 
p - damage reduction
p - . Unlike other 
p - outsiders
p - , the monk can still be brought back from the 
p - dead
p -  as if he were a member of his previous creature type.
p - A monk who becomes nonlawful cannot gain new levels as a monk but retains all monk abilities.
p - Instead of receiving an additional skill rank or hit point whenever they gain a level in a favored class, some races have the option of choosing from a number of other bonuses, depending upon their favored classes. The following options are available to the listed race who have monk as their favored class, and unless otherwise stated, the bonus applies each time you select the listed favored class reward.
p - When a character selects a class, he must choose to use the standard class features found or those listed in one of the archetypes presented here. Each alternate class feature replaces a specific class feature from its parent class. For example, the elemental fist class feature of the monk of the four winds replaces the stunning fist class feature of the monk. When an archetype includes multiple class features, a character must take all of them—often blocking the character from ever gaining certain familiar class features, but replacing them with equally powerful options. All of the other class features found in the core class and not mentioned among the alternate class features remain unchanged and are acquired normally when the character reaches the appropriate level (unless noted otherwise). A character who takes an alternate class feature does not count as having the class feature that was replaced when meeting any requirements or prerequisites.
p - A character can take more than one archetype and garner additional alternate class features, but none of the alternate class features can 
p - replace or alter the same class feature
p -  from the core class as another alternate class feature. For example, a 
p - paladin
p -  could not be both a hospitaler and an 
p - undead
p -  scourge since they both modify the 
p - smite evil
p -  class feature and both replace the aura of justice class feature. A 
p - paladin
p -  could, however, be both an 
p - undead
p -  scourge and a warrior of the holy light, since none of their new class features replace the same core class feature.
p - Monks are martial mystics. Through mediation and discipline, and sometimes by way of secrets passed down for generations within a monastery, a monk progresses toward his perfect self—along the way turning his body into an astonishing fighting machine. But though some masters would lead their students to think otherwise, the path toward the perfect self isn’t set. Different monks confront the road to enlightenment in different ways, and sometimes even with different goals, from harmony with the universe to physical perfection and immortality.
p - The themes and alternate class features presented below introduce not only variations in fighting techniques, but alternate philosophies for monks seeking perfection.
p - Subpages
p - Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook
p - . © 2009, Paizo Publishing, LLC; Author: Jason Bulmahn, based on material by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and Skip Williams.
p - New Pages
p - Recent Changes
p - Fan Labs
p - Character Sheets
p - Downloads
p - Hero Lab Community Repository
p - FAQ
p - Pirates ARRR Us!
p - Shop our Store!
p - Sell in the Store!
p - Back my Patreon!
p - Get Published
p - Report a Problem
p - Legal Information/Open Game License
p - Traveller SRD
p - Swords and Wizardry SRD
p - 5th Edition SRD
p - Dungeon World SRD
p - 13th Age SRD
p - d20HeroSRD
p - The Modern Path SRD
p - d20PFSRD
p - 3.5e SRD
p - GumshoeSRD
p - FateCoreSRD
p - Starjammer SRD
p - OGN Articles
p - Design Finder 2018
p - Fudge SRD
p - Pathfinder 2 Playtest
p - Here Be Monsters
p - affiliate commissions
p - Bootstrap
p - New Pages
p -  | 
p - Recent Changes
p -  | 
p - Privacy Policy
